.. _sd_v500:

Version 5.00
============

:guilabel:`Download (2Gb Zip - 2020/04/12)` : `Raspberry Pi CNC Hat Image - Download 1 <https://rpi-images.nyc3.digitaloceanspaces.com/V510-20200412.zip>`_

New in this release
-------------------

* **GRBL Firmware Updating Scripts** - These scripts make it easy to swap between GRBL V0.9 and V1.1
* **ChiliPeppr Server** `Web Interface <http://chilipeppr.com/grbl>`_ - Server shortcut on the desktop.
* **Universal Gcode Sender** [ Version 1.0.9 ] `Link <https://github.com/winder/Universal-G-Code-Sender>`_ - Server shortcut on the desktop.

Included
--------

* `bCNC [ Version 0.9.14 ] <https://github.com/vlachoudis/bCNC>`_ - Located on the desktop.
* `CNC.js [ Version v1.9.20 ] <https://github.com/cncjs/cncjs>`_ - Server shortcut to start it is on the desktop. 
    * Run the shortcut once and go to the RPI's http://<RPI-IP>:8000
* `Arduino [ Version 1.8.10 ] <https://arduino.cc/>`_
* **AVRDude-RPI** [ Customized ] - Programs Atmega328/Atmega2560's via Arduino IDE connected to /dev/ttyAMA0.
* **XRDB** - The Raspberry Pi can be accessed via Remote Desktop.
* **TightVNCServer** - Alternative to XRDB
* **CuteCom** - Very simple to use serial terminal.
* **SSH** has been enabled
* The image is less than 4.5GB uncompressed and we recommend using a 16GB SD-card.
* The hardware serial port has been configured as [/dev/ttyAMA0]. The Raspberry Pi 3 needs and extra step.(Below)
* **NodeJS** V8.11.1LTS + Yarn
* **JAVA** 8



.. Important::
    **Serila Port** - To setup a RPi 3/4, run the "RPi3/4 Serial Config" shortcut on the desktop it will configure the hardware serial port and is only needed for on a RPi 3's and RPi 4's. It only needs to be run once and will automatically reboot the Pi.


Installing
----------

`Follow the standard Raspberry Pi installation guide <https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/README.md>`_


Login credentails(SSH & RDP)
----------------------------

* Username : pi

* Password : raspberry

Tested on
---------
* Raspberry Pi 4
* Raspberry Pi 3 B+
* Raspberry Pi 3
* Raspberry Pi 2
* Raspberry Pi 1 B+ (Version with 40 Pin header)

.. HINT:: 
    Shrinking the image has been an issue.   
    We recommend using a 16GB SD Card.

Need help?
----------
* `Raspberry Pi CNC Board - Forum <http://forum.protoneer.co.nz/viewforum.php?f=7>`_
* `Raspberry Pi CNC Board Image - Forum <http://forum.protoneer.co.nz/viewforum.php?f=16>`_
